Why did you choose this career?
Ans. A possible answer to this HR interview question can be,

“I have always found a it interesting in app and websites development and knew I wanted to make a career in content.

What fascinates me is how fast the digital space is changing and the immense impact on the it insdustry.

I believe nowadays a lot of new startups are growing and every thing is done online that give boom to it industry

The constant change and the opportunity to learn new aspects are really important for me and helps me to improve my skills each and every day!”

2.What are you passionate about?
Ans.“One of my favorite activity is playing guitar and piano—I love being able to create something beautiful from nothing or find the tunes and chords of the song or even little bit of composition. Of course, compostion  also requires a keen attention to detail and a lot of patience. Luckily, these factors help me a lot while solving the problems in  software development!”

3.What are your greatest achivements?
Ans.My greatest professional achievement was the techincal quiz organized during college days and i have successuly organized an intracollege cricket tournament.

4.Who is  your role model and Why?
Ans.My Role Models are my father and my mother. Because my father taught me how to be patient in critical matters and also he taught me the value of time. He always tell me, respect the time. And my mother taught me that never lose your honesty.

5.What do you think are your improvement areas?
Ans.I am working on breaking the ice and making the first move to have a conversation with the individuals who are strangers 

6.Confidence and overconfidence?
Ans.The difference between confidence and overconfidence is that confidence means the belief in yourself through your hard work. But overconfidence means you are thinking that you are the only person capable to do that work.

7.Creative -Creativity is the characteristic of a person to generate new ideas, alternatives, solutions, and possibilities in a unique and different way.

Creativity is the ability to conceive something unpredictable, original and unique. It must be expressive, exciting and imaginative. It is the mirror of how beautifully a person can think in any given circumstance.

Innovation-Innovation is closely tied to creativity i.e. putting creative ideas into action is an innovation, whose consequences should be positive. It is the process of doing something better for the first time, which was not previously done by any entity. It can also be termed as a change which can bring a new edge to the performance and productivity of the company. It is of two types i.e. evolutionary and revolutionary.
The invention of the motorcycle was the biggest innovation over scooters. In early centuries, people used to travel with scooters, for which they have to make lots of efforts to start it like they need to strike the kick and knee down from either side if it doesn’t start. So, years and years passed away, and nobody even thought for the invention of bikes. The invention of the motorcycle make them realize that they can also ride bikes without making any extra efforts, they just have to click the switch and its starts automatically.

In this example, the thought of creation of a new traveling motorcycle is creativity, but the actual invention of it is innovation.

8.Group vs TeamWork--A group is a collection of individuals who coordinate their efforts, while a team is a group of people who share a common goal. While similar, the two are different when it comes to decision-making and teamwork.   

9.How you become an asset to the company?
Ans.To become an asset for an organization, we have to be punctual, dedicated, quickly adapt of the environment, and positive working attitude I have all of these qualities so, I will prove an asset for this company.

10.Why is it important to balance  work-life to you?

Work-life balance is an important aspect of a healthy work environment. Maintaining a work-life balance helps reduce stress and helps to prevent burnout in the workplace. Long-term pressure is one of the workplace's most common health issues.

11.how to decide between mutiple job offers?
Ans. Confirm each offer.
      Make a comparison.
     Consider your priorities.
     Research the workplace.
     Visualize your future.
12.Did you face any problem in last role?
